update search (#23)
SenseNet/docs.sensenet.com: content/concepts/basics/04-search.md

metaDescription: "sensenet Search"
---

In sensenet one of the most important technical aspects is how we index content items and how we search for them. Especially because sensenet is a query based system which means every content, every list you see on the ui is there because a query found it. In this article we describe the search module and how developers can customize it.

# Metadata indexing, searching by fields

> For every content [link] the field values can be indexed so that when searched for a field value the corresponding content will appear in the result set. It is also possible to search in fields by explicitly defining the field whose values are to be searched within a query. The way a specific field of a content is indexed is defined in the CTD Field Definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every content [link] the field values can be indexed so that when you search for a term the corresponding content with the related field value will appear in the result set. It is also possible to search by explicitly defining the field whose value we want to search for. The way a specific field of a content is indexed is defined in the CTD Field Definition.
```

> sensenet uses the Lucene search engine for indexing the content repository and to provide a fast mechanism for returning query results. Apart from the indexing of some basic built-in properties every field can be configured to be indexed separately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sensenet uses the Lucene search engine for indexing the content repository and to provide a fast mechanism for returning query results. Apart from the indexing of some basic built-in properties, every field can be configured to be indexed separately.
```

You may configure which search engine you want to use for indexing and querying by setting the SearchEngine value in the providers web.config section.

> Please note that this decision is usually made in development time. Although it is possible to switch to another search engine on a portal later, it will involve reindexing the whole content repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that this decision is usually made in development time. Although it is possible to switch to another search engine later, it will involve reindexing the whole content repository.
```

Reviewer: ezt a web.configos részt inkább full kiszedném, sztem itt too much

"on", "or", "such", "that", "the", "their", "then", "there", "these", "they", "this", "to", "was", "will", "with"

You can configure the indexing and storing mode, analyzer, and the association of Field IndexHandler in every Field. All elements are optional because all elements have default values.

# Search in uploaded docs
Binary fields are special fields that hold the actual content of a file. In sensenet it is possible indexing documents to let users search for (and find) uploaded files. sensenet is able to index not only metadata of documents (like creation date or author) but the binary content itself. The latter is called text extracting.
sensenet provides different search features to make search results even more effective.
_Full text search_: In sensenet content repository you are able to search in any metadata field of any content. As the field values can be indexed for every content, when you search for a field value the related content will appear in the result set. Without adding a field name into the query to search for, the search engine will look into all the fields that's value is indexed.

> _Fuzzy search_ : It allows you to identify non-exact matches of your target item. You can get relevant search results even if you have a typo in your query or a different verbal tense. You can define which differences you can accept and which ones not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Fuzzy search_ : It allows you to identify non-exact matches of your target item. You can get relevant search results even if you have a typo in your query or a different verbal tense. You can define which differences can be accepted and which ones cannot.
```

> # Search

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

https://community.sensenet.com/docs/search-engine/
https://wiki.sensenet.com/query_syntax.html

> In sensenet one of the most important technical aspects is how we index content items and how we search for them. Especially because sensenet is a query based system which means every content, every list you see on the UI is there because a query found it. In this article we describe the search module and how developers can customize it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In sensenet one of the most important technical aspects is how we index content items and how we search for them. Especially because sensenet is a query based system which means every content, every list you see on the ui is there because a query found it. In this article we describe the search module and how developers can customize it.
```

# Metadata indexing, searching by fields

> Making full index of content repository content is one of the most important tasks of the installation procedure of the sensenet Content Repository. This feature is used frequently during development too. The tool that can be used to create a full index is the Index Populator.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should highlight installation procedure here because I don't think it is tied up to it.

Index Populator is a standalone tool that has two files:

- IndexPopulator.exe
- IndexPopulator.exe.config

> For every content [link] the field values can be indexed so that when searched for a field value the corresponding content will appear in the result set. It is also possible to search in fields by explicitely defining the field whose values are to be searched within a query. The way a specific field of a content is indexed is defined in the CTD Field Definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For every content [link] the field values can be indexed so that when searched for a field value the corresponding content will appear in the result set. It is also possible to search in fields by explicitly defining the field whose values are to be searched within a query. The way a specific field of a content is indexed is defined in the CTD Field Definition.
```

"a", "an", "and", "are", "as", "at", "be", "but", "by", "for", "if", "in", "into", "is", "it", "no", "not", "of", 
"on", "or", "such", "that", "the", "their", "then", "there", "these", "they", "this", "to", "was", "will", "with"

https://wiki.sensenet.com/Field_Indexing.html - mit érdemes még itt említeni, kifejteni?

# Search in uploaded docs
Binary fields are special fields that hold the actual content of a file. In sensenet it is possible indexing documents to let users search for (and find) uploaded files. sensenet is able to index not only metadata of documents (like creation date or author) but the binary content itself. The latter is called text extracting. The algorithm used for extracting text from a binary depends on the type of the file - e.g. we need a different algorithm for extracting text from docx files than from pdfs. sensenet uses a provider approach to solve this task: every file type (extension) has its own text extractor class.

https://wiki.sensenet.com/Text_extractors.html - kell részletezni ezeket?

# Full text search

# Boosting
# Stemming

> # Queries (can be saved)

Author: ```suggestion
# Queries (can be saved)
There are several reasons to save your search queries. A benefit to saving queries is that once stored, they will collect new data on future executions. The next time you open the query all previous query criteria will be included in the current session’s search listing. This provides you with a foundation of queries to build upon in your advanced search efforts and saves you data entry time.
```

The indexing engine is an implementation of an interface that defines methods for writing IndexDocuments to the index. These index documents are generic, they hold all the meta information by which we can search for content items in the repository. To learn more about how indexing works in sensenet, please visit the Field indexing article.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Query result always depends on permissions. If you don't have the permission to a particular document. that has been retrieved as part of a query result, then the whole query result will appear, except for that particular content.
```

# Usage
sensenet content repository is a query based system, which means every content or image you see on the portal is collected by a very sophisticated and fast query engine. As an end-user, developer or administrator you get the solution to find, filter and sort content even in a huge and constantly expanding repository.

> From version 7.1 sensenet provides the ISearchEngine, IIndexingEngine and IQueryEngine interfaces that let developers create their own query and index implementations.

Reviewer: ezt a részt is sztem szkippelhetjük

Reviewer: vhová még betennék vmi utalást arra, hogy a search result mindig átmegy permission ellenőrzésen, tehát kereséssel sem érsz el olyan content-eket, amikhez nincs elég jogosultságod.

> # Usage (search box tips)

Author: ```suggestion
# Usage
sensenet content repository is a query based system, which means every content or image you see on the portal is collected by a very sophisticated and fast query engine. As an end-user, developer or administrator you get the solution to find, filter and sort content even in a huge and constantly expanding repository.
From version 7.1 sensenet provides the ISearchEngine, IIndexingEngine and IQueryEngine interfaces that let developers create their own query and index implementations.
You can find several usage and examples in the API docs [https://docs.sensenet.com/api-docs/querying].
```

> -> link to /api-docs/querying

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Customization

Author: ```suggestion
```

> From version 7.1 sensenet provides the ISearchEngine, IIndexingEngine and IQueryEngine interfaces that let developers create their own query and index implementations.

Author: ```suggestion
```
